# Compression/Decompression Algorithm

This program was created with a partner in my Advanced Computational Problem Modeling class at The University of San Diego.

Compress.java takes in an ASCII file and compresses it into a binary file. The algorithm first initializes a seperate chaining hash table with all ASCII characters. Then, the alogorithm finds the longest substring of the file that is in the hash table, and outputs the index of this substring to the binary file. If there is a character after a substring that is not in the hash table, then add that character to the substring, and insert it into the hash table. This process continues till the end of the file, and the program returns a compressed binary file, and another file with information about compression time, and the before/after file sizes.

Decompress.java takes the binary file and decompresses it back into an ASCII file. This algorithm a regular ArrayList with all ASCII characters, and works similarly to compression, but uses the numbers in the binary file instead of substrings. After outputting the 0th character (as that is already initialized in the hash table), it goes through the binary file and if the next index is in the dictionary, it outputs the text associated with that index into the output file, and also inserts the previous number's text and first character of the current number's text into the next index in the ArrayList. If the next index wasn't in the dictionary, then it outputs the previous index's text and first character into the output file and inserts it into the ArrayList. The index which this is inserted into is the current index you are reading in the binary file. The program will return a decompressed ASCII file, and another file with information about decompression time, and how many times the ArrayList had to be doubled.

This project also implements a seperate chining hash table, as it is needed for the compression algorithm. HashTableChain.java contains all necessary seperate chaining hash table methods, such as putting, getting, removing and rehashing. 
